---
layout: post
title: BlockChain(I)
date: 2017-9-11
author: KC
catalog: true

---
# BlockChain

Because tomorrow I will go to a seminar of BlockChain, as a beginner, I should do my homework. At least, I should know what that means. 

## introduction 
By allowing digital information to be distributed but not copied, no centralized information is stored, so no hacker to corrupt the data. 

With a blockchain, many people can write entries into a record of information, and a community of users can control how the record of information is updated. Likewise, Wikipedia entries are not the product of a single publisher, but wikipedia has centralized databses with owners(wiki administrators),but No one person controls the information. 

#### the key is distributed database 
**Decentralization**
Wikipedia is edited on a server and everyone can see it. It is just like committing to github with a master branch. 
However, for blockchain technology, transactions are broadcast, and every node is creating their own updated copies of events. 
Information held on a blockchain exists as a shared — and continually reconciled — database. 
* Be controlled by any single entity.
* Has no single point of failure.

#### Three key elements 
Private Key Cryptography (authentication)
internet P2P (authorization)
protocol governing incentivization 

#### Composition 
Node: computer that connected to blockchain and performs validating and relaying transactions 
> A blockchain is a decentralized and distributed digital ledger that is used to record transactions across many computers so that the record cannot be altered retroactively without the alteration of all subsequent blocks and the collusion of the network. This allows the participants to verify and audit transactions inexpensively.They are authenticated by mass collaboration powered by collective self-interests.