---
layout: post
title: Semi-supervised Learning(II) Graph
date: 2018-5-18
author: Kaiyuan Chen
catalog: true
tags:
    - Machine Learning
    - Paper Review
---



# Semi-supervised Learning(II): Graph

### Continued(Weight Matrix and Graph)

At initial condition, the nodes **carry a label that denotes the community they belong to**. Membership in a **community changes** based on the labels that the **neighboring nodes possess**. This change is subject to the maximum number of labels within one degree of the nodes. Every node is initialized with a unique label, then the labels diffuse through the network. Consequently, densely connected groups reach a common label quickly. When many such **dense** (consensus) groups are created throughout the network, they continue to expand outwards until it is impossible to do so. 

#### Example from [1]: MNIST

First thing to note is that Euclidean distance is a good measure of similarity of graphs in this case. Adjacent pairs are similar to each other: if they are not directly connected, label can still propagate to there. 

* additional introduction about [1]: it connects Gaussian process/Gaussian Random Field to label propagation. 

#### Graph Format 

* fully connected graph
* sparse graph: connection between dissimilar nodes are removed; weight learning makes optimization awkward
* k-NN graph: "adaptive scales"

### Community 

A community in a network is a group of nodes that are similar to each other and dissimilar from the rest of the network. Community detection, which is similar to network partition is NP complete. 





### References 

A good thesis that describes everything in ssl: http://pages.cs.wisc.edu/~jerryzhu/pub/thesis.pdf

A good survey about recent works http://pages.cs.wisc.edu/~jerryzhu/pub/ssl_survey.pdf